README.md, before:

# Modern Web tools with Node.js - Course book

> Nykyaikaiset Node.js työkalut tehokkaaseen Web työskentelyyn TT00CC06-3001

A course of using Node.js and related tools in Web development.
Held on every Tuesday at 16:40 - 20:45, class room U423 in Bulevard Campus of
[Metropolia University of Applied Sciences](http://www.metropolia.fi/en/ "Metropolia"), Helsinki, Finland.

Lecturer [Jukka Paasonen](http://paazmaya.com), `<first name . last name @ school name . country ISO code>`.

Please see [index.md](index.md) for further contents.

## Gitbook publish

[![Build Status](https://www.gitbook.io/button/status/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js)](https://www.gitbook.io/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js/activity)

This project is a Gitbook, which can be published to
[Modern Web tools with Node.js](https://www.gitbook.io/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js "Modern Web tools with Node.js").

```sh
git remote add https://push.gitbook.io/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js.git
git push book master
```

Credentials are asked, so unless you are a registered contributor,
please register yourself first to the lecturer.

Build locally, the `LC` variable needed in Mac:

```sh
sudo npm i -g gitbook
LC_CTYPE=en_US.UTF-8 gitbook build
```

Commit message:

Created proper cover, with a drawing by Toni Suni, and thus removing autocover plugin

README.md, after:

# Modern Web tools with Node.js - Course book

> Nykyaikaiset Node.js työkalut tehokkaaseen Web työskentelyyn TT00CC06-3001

A course of using [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and related tools in Web development.
Held on every Tuesday at 16:40 - 20:45, class room U423 in Bulevard Campus of
[Metropolia University of Applied Sciences](http://www.metropolia.fi/en/ "Metropolia"), Helsinki, Finland.

Lecturer [Jukka Paasonen](http://paazmaya.com), `<first name . last name @ school name . country ISO code>`.

Please see [index.md](index.md) for further contents.

## Gitbook

[![Build Status](https://www.gitbook.io/button/status/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js)](https://www.gitbook.io/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js/activity)

This project is a [Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.io/), which is published on each `git push` to
[Modern Web tools with Node.js](https://www.gitbook.io/book/paazmaya/modern-web-tools-with-node-js "Modern Web tools with Node.js").

Build locally, the `LC` variable needed in Mac:

```sh
sudo npm i -g gitbook gitbook-plugin-anchors gitbook-plugin-exercises
LC_CTYPE=en_US.UTF-8 gitbook build
```
