# Lecture 1. - Introduction to Node.js and JavaScript

> Date 26/08/2014

This course (TT00CC06-3001) is about getting to know [Node.js][] and tools that are made with it.

The primary focus is towards functionality and tooling that can improve the workflow of a Web Developer.

## Targets defined as course delivery

* The student is able to regocnise the possibilities available via Node.js in a user interface development.
* The student can understand the meaning and reasoning for tools such as Grunt, 
  Gulp, Bower and Jasmine in order to reduce the time used for repetitive tasks and to increase code quality.
* The student can create small scripts and plugins that can be used via command line.
* The student can publish their own tools and keep them up to date via version control systems.
* The student learns how to use Github service for group work.

## Presentations and assignments

Each lecture contains two presentations made by student groups. Each student groups consists of two to three
members, depending on the total amount of course participants.

Presentation subjects are divided according to the themes of each lesson and assigned to groups
by their own criteria.

The course contains four assignments, which are given in four week cycles. Each assignment should be returned in a week
when it has been given, preferrably via Github.

## Evaluation criteria

Each student is evaluated according to the following criterias, based on their returned assignments, presentations
and other studying activities during the lessons.

### Modest

- The student can install Node.js and its related tools and applications
- The student can run existing Node.js tools from the commandline
- The student can create simple applications and to use them
- The student can understand how modules properties and methods are shown to third party scripts
- The student can understand the basics of unit testing

### Good

- The student can publish their own tool to the NPM repository
- The student can create tests for their own tools/plugins
- The student can use the Node.js API efficiently and find methods that work for the given task

### Brilliant

- The tools that the student has published have continuout automated testing
- The student is able to update their own tools via version control system
- The student can grasp what third party plugins can achieve and can use them efficiently in their own project
- The student is able to participate the development of other tools via pull requests

## Links

* [JSbooks](http://jsbooks.revolunet.com/ "JSbooks - The best free JavaScript resources")
* [Programming JavaScript Applications](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1234000000262/index.html "Programming JavaScript Applications - Free Early Release version")
* [Understanding Scope and Context in JavaScript](http://ryanmorr.com/understanding-scope-and-context-in-javascript/ "JavaScript’s implementation of scope and context is a unique feature of the language, in part because it is so flexible")
* [The Nodefirm - Training Courses](http://thenodefirm.com/blog/2013/08/25/new-public-training-courses/ "Since its inception, The Node Firm has been the go to choice for corporate Node.js training")
* [nodemeatspace.com](http://nodemeatspace.com/ "This project is to encourage and promote real world in-person events by/for the node.js community.")
* [nodeschool.io](http://nodeschool.io/ "Learn Node.JS with interactive lessons")
* [An Absolute Beginner's Guide to Node.js](http://blog.modulus.io/absolute-beginners-guide-to-nodejs "An Absolute Beginner's Guide to Node.js")


[node.js]: http://nodejs.org/ "Node.js is a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime for easily building fast, scalable network applications"