lectures/2014-10-14.md, before:

# Lecture 8. - Automation and continuous integration

> Date 14/10/2014

Automated testing and building services which support Node.js, such as [Travis CI][]
and [Wercker][], can be linked to a Github repository with a hook, from where they fetch the latest
changes on every `git push` and publish the test/build results.


## Tasks for the day

1. Make sure your `hello-node-js` has linting and unit tests, thay can be executed with `npm test`
  - Add either of the two services mentioned above so that `npm test` is executed every time you push code to the repository
  - Add a badge on the top part of the `README.md` file which shows the current state
2. Find a npm module which has unit tests but is not using automated testing service
  - Create an issue for taking such service in use
  - The issue should include instructions of how to take such a service in use
  - The issue should describe how to add a badge that shows the current state
  - Link the issue in the list below

## Issues for adding automated testing


## Links related to the lecture subject


[travis ci]: http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/javascript-with-nodejs/ "Building a Node.js project"
[wercker]: http://devcenter.wercker.com/articles/languages/nodejs.html "Wercker supports node.js"

Commit message:

Heroku will be a topic and drone.io is also a CI service

lectures/2014-10-14.md, after:

# Lecture 8. - Automation and continuous integration

> Date 14/10/2014

Automated testing and building services which support Node.js, such as [Drone.io][], [Travis CI][]
and [Wercker][], can be linked to a Github repository with a hook, from where they fetch the latest
changes on every `git push` and publish the test/build results.


## Tasks for the day

1. Make sure your `hello-node-js` has linting and unit tests, thay can be executed with `npm test`
  - Add one of the services mentioned above so that `npm test` is executed every time you push code to the repository
  - Add a badge on the top part of the `README.md` file which shows the current state
2. Find a npm module which has unit tests but is not using automated testing service
  - Create an issue for taking such service in use
  - The issue should include instructions of how to take such a service in use
  - The issue should describe how to add a badge that shows the current state
  - Link the issue in the list below

## Issues for adding automated testing


## Links related to the lecture subject


[drone.io]: http://docs.drone.io/node.html "Building Node.js Projects"
[travis ci]: http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/javascript-with-nodejs/ "Building a Node.js project"
[wercker]: http://devcenter.wercker.com/articles/languages/nodejs.html "Wercker supports node.js"
