lectures/2014-10-28.md, before:

# Lecture 10. - Front end third party dependencies

> Date 28/10/2014

[Third assignment is given.](../assignments/2014-10-28.md)

## Front end dependencies

While Node.js is a back end JavaScript environment, the dependency management touched in the earlier
lecture is equally important for front end dependencies. There dependency managers such as
[Bower][] and [Component][], which are very similar to [npm][]. Many packages that are available
in one of them, is also available in the two other.

### Tasks for front end dependencies

1. In the project made in the [web server lecture](2014-09-23.md "HTTP, Connect, Express")
  - Add a library for doing DOM selection and event handler binding by using a dependency manager
  - Use that library for putting the cursor in the first field when the user enter the feedback page
2. Write in `hello-node-js` repository `README.md` file when would you use a front end package manager
   and when you would add the 3rd party library directly under the project version control

## Code coverage of unit tests

Unit testing is usually providing stability to a project, but without knowing how much
code the tests are covering, it is difficult to trust the given stability.
Code coverage is a method used to describe how much of the code executed is truly tested.

One popular code coverage tool is [istanbul][], which can be installed with a command:

```sh
npm i -g istanbul
```

Coverage report can be generated with a command:

```sh
istanbul cover tests/last-mod_spec.js
```

This would create a folder called `coverage` that contains the report in several different formats.


### Tasks for code coverage

1. Make sure that the unit tests and the task runner made in the
   [unit testing lecture](2014-10-07.md "Unit testing, Jasmine, PhantomJS") are working
   - Add code coverage check via task runner for the project
   - Use coverage report to find out areas where tests are not touching
   - Add more unit tests to achieve at least 95% coverage
2. 



## Links related to the lecture subject

[JavaScript Code Coverage with Istanbul](http://ariya.ofilabs.com/2012/12/javascript-code-coverage-with-istanbul.html "JavaScript Code Coverage with Istanbul")


[Bower]: http://bower.io/ "A package manager for the web"
[Component]: https://github.com/componentjs/component "Component is a vertically integrated frontend solution, handling everything from package management to the build process, handling everything including HTML, JS, CSS, images, and fonts"
[istanbul]: http://gotwarlost.github.io/istanbul/ "istanbul: A Javascript code coverage tool written in JS"

Commit message:

That is hopefuly all for today

lectures/2014-10-28.md, after:

# Lecture 10. - Front end third party dependencies

> Date 28/10/2014

[Third assignment is given.](../assignments/2014-10-28.md)

## Front end dependencies

While Node.js is a back end JavaScript environment, the dependency management touched in the earlier
lecture is equally important for front end dependencies. There dependency managers such as
[Bower][] and [Component][], which are very similar to [npm][]. Many packages that are available
in one of them, is also available in the two other.

### Tasks for front end dependencies

1. In the project made in the [web server lecture](2014-09-23.md "HTTP, Connect, Express")
  - Add a library for doing DOM selection and event handler binding by using a dependency manager
  - Use that library for putting the cursor in the first field when the user enter the feedback page
2. Write in `hello-node-js` repository `README.md` file when would you use a front end package manager
   and when you would add the 3rd party library directly under the project version control

## Code coverage of unit tests

Unit testing is usually providing stability to a project, but without knowing how much
code the tests are covering, it is difficult to trust the given stability.
Code coverage is a method used to describe how much of the code executed is truly tested.

One popular code coverage tool is [istanbul][], which can be installed with a command:

```sh
npm i -g istanbul
```

Coverage report can be generated with a command:

```sh
istanbul cover tests/last-mod_spec.js
```

This would create a folder called `coverage` that contains the report in several different formats.


### Tasks for code coverage

1. Make sure that the unit tests and the task runner made in the
   [unit testing lecture](2014-10-07.md "Unit testing, Jasmine, PhantomJS") are working
   - Add code coverage check via task runner for the project
   - Use coverage report to find out areas where tests are not touching
   - Add more unit tests to achieve at least 95% coverage
2. Find a npm module that has unit tests and is running them via task runner
   - Add code coverage task
   - Create pull request
   - Link the pull request to the list below

### Code coverage task runner pull requests



## Links related to the lecture subject

[JavaScript Code Coverage with Istanbul](http://ariya.ofilabs.com/2012/12/javascript-code-coverage-with-istanbul.html "JavaScript Code Coverage with Istanbul")


[Bower]: http://bower.io/ "A package manager for the web"
[Component]: https://github.com/componentjs/component "Component is a vertically integrated frontend solution, handling everything from package management to the build process, handling everything including HTML, JS, CSS, images, and fonts"
[istanbul]: http://gotwarlost.github.io/istanbul/ "istanbul: A Javascript code coverage tool written in JS"
