lectures/2014-10-21.md, before:

# Lecture 9. - Package dependencies

> Date 21/10/2014

Due to the rapid cycle of development and changes in the third party modules that are used in a
given project, someone should look after those dependencies being up to date.
Free services for monitoring those third party modules,
such as [Gemnasium][] and [VersionEye][] offer email notifications and project badges
to be used in `README.md` files, so that project developers and other could see the dependency state,
them being outdated or not.

All of the above mentioned services can be used for free and registration can be done with the Github account.
There are several other similar services, but they might not support `npm` specific dependencies.

## Tasks for the day

1. Add dependency version monitoring to your `hello-node-js` repository
   - You should have at least `moment` marked as a dependency in the `package.json` from earlier tasks
   - Add the badge displaying the current status in the top area of `README.md` file
2. Find an open source project which is using dependencies from `npm`
   - Create an issue to that project which requests adding one of those dependency monitoring services
   - The issue should be helpful enough so that the project owner can easily take such service in use
   - Assume that the project owner has no knowledge of these services and be kind
   - Link the issue to the list below
3. Write a note about the differences in version requirement syntax used in `package.json`
   - The text should be in the `README.md` of your `hello-node-js`, under a section called "Version selector madness"
4. Optional: Create a graphical presentation of the `hello-node-js` dependency map
   - Save it as an image, save it in the repository and display in `README.md`


### Dependency monitoring issues


## Links related to the lecture subject

* [Package.json dependencies done right](http://blog.nodejitsu.com/package-dependencies-done-right/ "Package.json dependencies done right")
* [npm-ls - List installed packages](https://www.npmjs.org/doc/cli/npm-ls.html "List installed packages")
* [The semver parser for node (the one npm uses)](https://github.com/npm/node-semver "The semver parser for node (the one npm uses)")
* [Continuous Updating with VersionEye at code.talks 2014](http://www.slideshare.net/robertreiz/continuous-updating-codetalks "Continuous Updating with VersionEye at code.talks 2014")

[Gemnasium]: https://gemnasium.com/ "Gemnasium monitors your project dependencies and alerts you about updates and security vulnerabilities"
[VersionEye]: http://www.versioneye.com/ "Notification System for Software Libraries"

Commit message:

@Oona found alanshaw/david-www

lectures/2014-10-21.md, after:

# Lecture 9. - Package dependencies

> Date 21/10/2014

Due to the rapid cycle of development and changes in the third party modules that are used in a
given project, someone should look after those dependencies being up to date.
Free services for monitoring those third party modules,
such as [David][], [Gemnasium][] and [VersionEye][] offer email notifications and project badges
to be used in `README.md` files, so that project developers and other could see the dependency state,
them being outdated or not.

All of the above mentioned services can be used for free and registration can be done with the Github account.
There are several other similar services, but they might not support `npm` specific dependencies.

## Tasks for the day

1. Add dependency version monitoring to your `hello-node-js` repository
   - You should have at least `moment` marked as a dependency in the `package.json` from earlier tasks
   - Add the badge displaying the current status in the top area of `README.md` file
2. Find an open source project which is using dependencies from `npm`
   - Create an issue to that project which requests adding one of those dependency monitoring services
   - The issue should be helpful enough so that the project owner can easily take such service in use
   - Assume that the project owner has no knowledge of these services and be kind
   - Link the issue to the list below
3. Write a note about the differences in version requirement syntax used in `package.json`
   - The text should be in the `README.md` of your `hello-node-js`, under a section called "Version selector madness"
4. Optional: Create a graphical presentation of the `hello-node-js` dependency map
   - Save it as an image, save it in the repository and display in `README.md`


### Dependency monitoring issues


## Links related to the lecture subject

* [Package.json dependencies done right](http://blog.nodejitsu.com/package-dependencies-done-right/ "Package.json dependencies done right")
* [npm-ls - List installed packages](https://www.npmjs.org/doc/cli/npm-ls.html "List installed packages")
* [The semver parser for node (the one npm uses)](https://github.com/npm/node-semver "The semver parser for node (the one npm uses)")
* [Continuous Updating with VersionEye at code.talks 2014](http://www.slideshare.net/robertreiz/continuous-updating-codetalks "Continuous Updating with VersionEye at code.talks 2014")

[David]: https://david-dm.org/ "Watching your Node.js dependencies"
[Gemnasium]: https://gemnasium.com/ "Gemnasium monitors your project dependencies and alerts you about updates and security vulnerabilities"
[VersionEye]: http://www.versioneye.com/ "Notification System for Software Libraries"
