# Lecture 3. - Modules and npm

> Date 09/09/2014

Node.js applications are JavaScript files that are run via `node` binary.

Scope in Node.js is file based, thus each file can be used as a self contained module. In case there are several files which are to be used together, one should be the main (as `main()` would be in languages like C) while others are modules exporting their functionality.
In the tasks to be done below, the `task-1.js` is the main file for the first task.

The tasks done during this lecture should be saved in a Github repository called `hello-node-js`. Each file should be named in lowercase, starting with `task-`, followed by the task number and end with `.js`.
Thus running a command `node task-1.js` would run the code created in the first task (and print out "Hello World").

1. Create a "Hello World" application, an application that prints out the text "Hello World"
2. Create an application that takes one numerical argument, doubles it and prints it
3. Create an application that uses a module.
    - The module has one method
    - That method takes one parameter, a filename
    - That method returns the timestamp of the last modification time for the file if it exists. Else it should return false
    - The main part of the application should format the given timestamp to match Finnish date and time format
    - The result is finally printed out.
4. Fork the repository of your classmate and create a pull request on their task 3, by doing the following changes:
    - Find an existing module from [npmjs.org][npm] that can be used for formatting the timestamp
    - Replace the formatting functionality with one from the module found.
5. Come up with a repetitive task that you might be doing every now and then, for example renaming files based on certain criteria, resizing images, trimming whitespace, etc.
    - Create an application that simplifies that work for you
    - Consider using `.forEach` at least once
    - Possibly use other programs installed via `spawn`.
6. Extend the task 5 to be used as a module
    - Create `package.json` with required information and license of your choosing
    - Tag `v0.1.0` release
    - Optional: publish it to [npm][].

Please note that in task 4, Github will take care of any naming collisions that might occur if the repositories have the same name.

Feel free to add any links below that were helpful for you when completing the above tasks, via pull requests.

## Links related to the lecture subject

* [Node.js API documentation][api]
* [Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)](http://paazmaya.com/setting-up-node.js-package-manager-npm "Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)")
* [npm cheat sheet](http://browsenpm.org/help "npm cheat sheet")
* [Browserify handbook](https://github.com/substack/browserify-handbook "how to build modular applications with browserify")
* [Video: Understanding Scope in JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTUyNW9oTLo "Understanding Scope in JavaScript")
* [Example code repository for the tasks 1-4](https://github.com/paazmaya/hello-node-js "Hello Node.js")

[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/ "Node Packaged Modules"
[api]: http://nodejs.org/documentation/api/ "Node.js API Documentation"

## Code examples

### Task 1

Simply just using `console.log()` method prints out to the command prompt,
as described in the [relevant API documentation](http://nodejs.org/api/console.html#console_console_log_data "Prints to stdout with newline").

```js
// task-1.js
var words = "Hello World";
console.log(words);
```

The string which is saved in the variable `words`, could also be written directly inside the `console.log()` call, but for the sake of mainainability and possibly further development it is better to use variables even for such a simple task.

### Task 2

In order to get access on the command line arguments, use global `process` variable.
It is also documented [in the API documentation](http://nodejs.org/api/process.html#process_process "The process object is a global object and can be accessed from anywhere").

```js
// task-2.js
var arg = process.argv[2];
console.log(arg * 2);
```

Run the given application `node task-2.js 3`. It should output `6`.

The `process.argv` is an array of the command line arguments, starting with the`node` at index 0.
Therefore the index 2 contains the first argument given to the script, while the script filename is available at the index 1.


### Task 3

Use the native module called [`fs` for file system access](http://nodejs.org/api/fs.html "File I/O is provided by simple wrappers around standard POSIX functions").

```js
// last-mod.js
var fs = require('fs');

module.exports = function(filename) {
	if (fs.existsSync(filename)) {
		var stat = fs.statSync(filename);
		return stat.mtime;
	}
	return false;
};
```

The above use synchronous method `fs.statSync()` returns [a statistics object](http://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_class_fs_stats "Objects returned from fs.stat(), fs.lstat() and fs.fstat() and their synchronous counterparts are of this type")
which provides the information needed in its `mstat` property.

It should be noted that the returned value was mistakenly assumed to be a timestamp (number of seconds from 1.1.1970),
but it is in fact an instance of [the JavaScript Date object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date "Date objects are based on a time value that is the number of milliseconds since 1 January, 1970 UTC").

Now the `last-mod.js` file can be used as a module, by requiring it in the same fashion as other modules.
In order to make it clearer that it is in the same directory, the `./` is used.

The main file could look something similar as shown below. Note that the date formatting takes up most of the lines.

```js
// task-3.js
var m = require('./last-mod');

var filename = process.argv[2];
var timestamp = m(filename);
if (timestamp !== false) {
	var date = timestamp;

	var fin = date.getDate() + '.' +
		(date.getMonth() + 1) + '.' +
		date.getFullYear();

	fin += '  ' + date.getHours() + '.' +
		date.getMinutes();

	console.log(fin);
}
else {
	console.log("Error message");
}
```

### Task 4

Once the fork has been done at Github and cloned locally, `package.json` configuration file needs to be created, in order to define the required depencency.

```sh
npm init
```

The above command will ask few questions, such as name and version. It will create something similar to:

```json
{
  "name": "Lecture-3",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "task-3.js",
  "dependencies": {},
  "devDependencies": {},
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "MIT"
}

```
It is fine to ignore the error text in the test section. The testing subject will be [discussed further in a later lecture]().

Now the module need to be installed and saved to the dependency list. The following command does both of those:

```sh
npm install --save moment
```

Thus the `package.json`will be updated with the following information:
```json
"dependencies": {
  "moment": "^2.8.3"
}
```

In order to take the `moment` module in to use, it needs to be imported with `var moment = require('moment');`.
Now the module is available with `moment`variable name and the date formatting can be simplified to a single line, such as `moment(date).format('D.M.YYYY  H.m');`.
Formatting options are described in detail at [the given modules documentation]().

Resulting updated main file would look something like shown below:

```js
var m = require('./last-mod');
var moment = require('moment');

var filename = process.argv[2];
var timestamp = m(filename);
if (timestamp !== false) {
	var date = new Date(timestamp);

	var fin = moment(date).format('D.M.YYYY  H.m');

	console.log(fin);
}
else {
	console.log("Error message");
}
```


`.gitignore`

````
# Dependency directory
node_modules
```
