lectures/2014-09-09.md, before:

# Lecture 3. - Modules and npm

> Date 09/09/2014

Node.js applications are JavaScript files that are run via `node` binary.

Scope in Node.js is file based, thus each file can be used as a self contained module.

The tasks done during this lecture should be saved in a Github repository called `hello-node-js`. Each file should be named in lowercase, starting with `task-`, followed by the task number and end with `.js`.
Thus running a command `node task-1.js` would run the code created in the first task (and print out "Hello World").

1. Create a "Hello World" application, an application that prints out the text "Hello World"
2. Create an application that takes one numerical argument, doubles it and prints it
3. Create an application that uses a module.
    - The module has one method
    - That method takes one parameter, a filename
    - That method returns the timestamp of the last modification time for the file if it exists. Else it should return false
    - The main part of the application should format the given timestamp to match Finnish date and time format
    - The result is finally printed out.
4. Fork the repository of your classmate and create a pull request on their task 3, by doing the following changes:
    - Find an existing module from [npmjs.org][npm] that can be used for formatting the timestamp
    - Replace the formatting functionality with one from the module found.
5. Come up with a repetitive task that you might be doing every now and then, for example renaming files based on certain criteria, resizing images, trimming whitespace, etc.
    - Create an application that simplifies that work for you
    - Consider using `.forEach` at least once
    - Possibly use other programs installed via `spawn`.
6. Extend the task 5 to be used as a module
    - Create `package.json` with required information
    - Tag `v0.1.0` release
    - Optional: publish it to [npm][].

Please note that in task 4, Github will take care of any naming collisions that might occur if the repositories have the same name.

Feel free to add any links below that were helpful for you when completing the above tasks, via pull requests.

## Links related to the lecture subject

* [Node.js API documentation][api]
* [Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)](http://paazmaya.com/setting-up-node.js-package-manager-npm "Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)")
* [npm cheat sheet](http://browsenpm.org/help "npm cheat sheet")
* [Browserify handbook](https://github.com/substack/browserify-handbook "how to build modular applications with browserify")

[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/ "Node Packaged Modules"
[api]: http://nodejs.org/documentation/api/ "Node.js API Documentation"

Commit message:

Video link was in a wrong place

lectures/2014-09-09.md, after:

# Lecture 3. - Modules and npm

> Date 09/09/2014

Node.js applications are JavaScript files that are run via `node` binary.

Scope in Node.js is file based, thus each file can be used as a self contained module. In case there are several files which are to be used together, one should be the main (as `main()` would be in languages like C) while others are modules exporting their functionality.
In the tasks to be done below, the `task-1.js` is the main file for the first task.

The tasks done during this lecture should be saved in a Github repository called `hello-node-js`. Each file should be named in lowercase, starting with `task-`, followed by the task number and end with `.js`.
Thus running a command `node task-1.js` would run the code created in the first task (and print out "Hello World").

1. Create a "Hello World" application, an application that prints out the text "Hello World"
2. Create an application that takes one numerical argument, doubles it and prints it
3. Create an application that uses a module.
    - The module has one method
    - That method takes one parameter, a filename
    - That method returns the timestamp of the last modification time for the file if it exists. Else it should return false
    - The main part of the application should format the given timestamp to match Finnish date and time format
    - The result is finally printed out.
4. Fork the repository of your classmate and create a pull request on their task 3, by doing the following changes:
    - Find an existing module from [npmjs.org][npm] that can be used for formatting the timestamp
    - Replace the formatting functionality with one from the module found.
5. Come up with a repetitive task that you might be doing every now and then, for example renaming files based on certain criteria, resizing images, trimming whitespace, etc.
    - Create an application that simplifies that work for you
    - Consider using `.forEach` at least once
    - Possibly use other programs installed via `spawn`.
6. Extend the task 5 to be used as a module
    - Create `package.json` with required information and license of your choosing
    - Tag `v0.1.0` release
    - Optional: publish it to [npm][].

Please note that in task 4, Github will take care of any naming collisions that might occur if the repositories have the same name.

Feel free to add any links below that were helpful for you when completing the above tasks, via pull requests.

## Links related to the lecture subject

* [Node.js API documentation][api]
* [Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)](http://paazmaya.com/setting-up-node.js-package-manager-npm "Setting up Node.js Package Manager (npm)")
* [npm cheat sheet](http://browsenpm.org/help "npm cheat sheet")
* [Browserify handbook](https://github.com/substack/browserify-handbook "how to build modular applications with browserify")
* [Video: Understanding Scope in JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTUyNW9oTLo "Understanding Scope in JavaScript")

[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/ "Node Packaged Modules"
[api]: http://nodejs.org/documentation/api/ "Node.js API Documentation"
